README.md, before:

# GPT Actions for Unity

[![Unity 2021.2.3f1](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

## Supported Unity Versions

This package is tested with **Unity 2021.2.3f1** and newer.

## Content
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Actions](#actions)

## Features

- AI-powered chat window that can execute editor commands
- Tools to create or modify assets, scripts and shaders
- Retrieve project information like tags, layers and packages
- Automate common Unity workflows directly from the chat

## Installation

Add the package to your `manifest.json`:

```json
"com.deathbygravitystudio.gptactions": "https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions.git"
```

Create `Assets/StreamingAssets/.env` and define:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_openai_key>
SERP_API_KEY=<optional_serpapi_key>
```

## Usage

1. Open **AI Chat** from `Window > AI Chat`.
2. Enter a prompt or choose a template and let the assistant modify your project.
3. Actions include spawning objects, adjusting serialized fields, generating code and more.

## Actions

The extension exposes the following actions:
- [AddPackageAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AddPackageAction.cs)
- [AdjustRectTransformAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustRectTransformAction.cs)
- [AdjustSerializedFieldAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustSerializedFieldAction.cs)
- [AdjustUnityObjectFieldAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustUnityObjectFieldAction.cs)
- [ApplyMaterialAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ApplyMaterialAction.cs)
- [AssignLayerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AssignLayerAction.cs)
- [AssignPrimitiveMeshAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AssignPrimitiveMeshAction.cs)
- [AttachRemoveComponentAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AttachRemoveComponentAction.cs)
- [CreateAnimatorControllerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateAnimatorControllerAction.cs)
- [CreateCustomShaderFunction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateCustomShaderFunction.cs)
- [CreateGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateGameObjectAction.cs)
- [CreateLayerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateLayerAction.cs)
- [CreateMonoBehaviourAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateMonoBehaviourAction.cs)
- [CreatePrefabAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreatePrefabAction.cs)
- [CreateScriptableObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateScriptableObjectAction.cs)
- [CreateTagAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateTagAction.cs)
- [CreateUnityAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateUnityAssetAction.cs)
- [CreatesServiceScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreatesServiceScriptAction.cs)
- [DescribeCSharpScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/DescribeCSharpScriptAction.cs)
- [DumpProjectSettingPropertiesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/DumpProjectSettingPropertiesAction.cs)
- [GenerateCSharpScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateCSharpScriptAction.cs)
- [GenerateMaterialAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateMaterialAssetAction.cs)
- [GenerateMeshAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateMeshAssetAction.cs)
- [GenerateRigidbodyAndColliderAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateRigidbodyAndColliderAction.cs)
- [GenerateScriptableMenuAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateScriptableMenuAction.cs)
- [GenerateShaderAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateShaderAction.cs)
- [GenerateSvgImageIgptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateSvgImageIgptAction.cs)
- [GenerateTextureAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateTextureAssetAction.cs)
- [GetObjectBoundsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GetObjectBoundsAction.cs)
- [GetRectTransformPropertiesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GetRectTransformPropertiesAction.cs)
- [ListAllProjectSettingsAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ListAllProjectSettingsAssetsAction.cs)
- [ModifyProjectSettingAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ModifyProjectSettingAction.cs)
- [ParentGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ParentGameObjectAction.cs)
- [QueryAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryAssetsAction.cs)
- [QueryCSharpClassesByParentTypeAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryCSharpClassesByParentTypeAction.cs)
- [QueryInternetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryInternetAction.cs)
- [QueryOpenedSceneAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryOpenedSceneAction.cs)
- [RemovePackageAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RemovePackageAction.cs)
- [RetrieveLayersAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveLayersAction.cs)
- [RetrievePackagesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrievePackagesAction.cs)
- [RetrieveProjectInfoAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveProjectInfoAction.cs)
- [RetrieveProjectSettingAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveProjectSettingAction.cs)
- [RetrieveTagsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveTagsAction.cs)
- [RunPythonCode](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RunPythonCode.cs)
- [SelectAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/SelectAssetsAction.cs)
- [SpawnGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/SpawnGameObjectAction.cs)
- [ToggleGameObjectActiveStateAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ToggleGameObjectActiveStateAction.cs)
- [TransformGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/TransformGameObjectAction.cs)

Commit message:

Align Responses service with new API

README.md, after:

# GPT Actions for Unity

[![Unity 2021.2.3f1](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

## Supported Unity Versions

This package is tested with **Unity 2021.2.3f1** and newer.

## Content
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Actions](#actions)

## Features

- AI-powered chat window that can execute editor commands
- Tools to create or modify assets, scripts and shaders
- Retrieve project information like tags, layers and packages
- Automate common Unity workflows directly from the chat
- Utilizes the new OpenAI `/responses` endpoint for improved results
- Implementation in `Runtime/Api/OpenAIResponsesApiService.cs`

## Installation

Add the package to your `manifest.json`:

```json
"com.deathbygravitystudio.gptactions": "https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions.git"
```

Create `Assets/StreamingAssets/.env` and define:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_openai_key>
SERP_API_KEY=<optional_serpapi_key>
```

## Usage

1. Open **AI Chat** from `Window > AI Chat`.
2. Enter a prompt or choose a template and let the assistant modify your project.
3. Actions include spawning objects, adjusting serialized fields, generating code and more.

## Actions

The extension exposes the following actions:
- [AddPackageAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AddPackageAction.cs)
- [AdjustRectTransformAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustRectTransformAction.cs)
- [AdjustSerializedFieldAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustSerializedFieldAction.cs)
- [AdjustUnityObjectFieldAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AdjustUnityObjectFieldAction.cs)
- [ApplyMaterialAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ApplyMaterialAction.cs)
- [AssignLayerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AssignLayerAction.cs)
- [AssignPrimitiveMeshAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AssignPrimitiveMeshAction.cs)
- [AttachRemoveComponentAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/AttachRemoveComponentAction.cs)
- [CreateAnimatorControllerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateAnimatorControllerAction.cs)
- [CreateCustomShaderFunction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateCustomShaderFunction.cs)
- [CreateGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateGameObjectAction.cs)
- [CreateLayerAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateLayerAction.cs)
- [CreateMonoBehaviourAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateMonoBehaviourAction.cs)
- [CreatePrefabAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreatePrefabAction.cs)
- [CreateScriptableObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateScriptableObjectAction.cs)
- [CreateTagAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateTagAction.cs)
- [CreateUnityAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreateUnityAssetAction.cs)
- [CreatesServiceScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/CreatesServiceScriptAction.cs)
- [DescribeCSharpScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/DescribeCSharpScriptAction.cs)
- [DumpProjectSettingPropertiesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/DumpProjectSettingPropertiesAction.cs)
- [GenerateCSharpScriptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateCSharpScriptAction.cs)
- [GenerateMaterialAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateMaterialAssetAction.cs)
- [GenerateMeshAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateMeshAssetAction.cs)
- [GenerateRigidbodyAndColliderAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateRigidbodyAndColliderAction.cs)
- [GenerateScriptableMenuAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateScriptableMenuAction.cs)
- [GenerateShaderAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateShaderAction.cs)
- [GenerateSvgImageIgptAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateSvgImageIgptAction.cs)
- [GenerateTextureAssetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GenerateTextureAssetAction.cs)
- [GetObjectBoundsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GetObjectBoundsAction.cs)
- [GetRectTransformPropertiesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/GetRectTransformPropertiesAction.cs)
- [ListAllProjectSettingsAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ListAllProjectSettingsAssetsAction.cs)
- [ModifyProjectSettingAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ModifyProjectSettingAction.cs)
- [ParentGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ParentGameObjectAction.cs)
- [QueryAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryAssetsAction.cs)
- [QueryCSharpClassesByParentTypeAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryCSharpClassesByParentTypeAction.cs)
- [QueryInternetAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryInternetAction.cs)
- [QueryOpenedSceneAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/QueryOpenedSceneAction.cs)
- [RemovePackageAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RemovePackageAction.cs)
- [RetrieveLayersAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveLayersAction.cs)
- [RetrievePackagesAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrievePackagesAction.cs)
- [RetrieveProjectInfoAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveProjectInfoAction.cs)
- [RetrieveProjectSettingAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveProjectSettingAction.cs)
- [RetrieveTagsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RetrieveTagsAction.cs)
- [RunPythonCode](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/RunPythonCode.cs)
- [SelectAssetsAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/SelectAssetsAction.cs)
- [SpawnGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/SpawnGameObjectAction.cs)
- [ToggleGameObjectActiveStateAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/ToggleGameObjectActiveStateAction.cs)
- [TransformGameObjectAction](https://github.com/denchi/UnityGPTActions/blob/main/Editor/Actions/TransformGameObjectAction.cs)
